xtheme - An XTerm/UXTerm/RXVT/URXVT themeing tool
gh: emctague/xtheme

Generates .Xresources and .Xdefaults based on a simpler theme configuration
file format than the standard XRDB one. Made specifically for themeing.


Usage: xtheme <file>

Dependencies:
All you need is gcc on a linux system.

Building:
$ make

Installing:
# make install



Why?

Because I've gotten tired of searching for the options I want for my XResources
file - the names tend to be a bit weird, they're long and repetitive, and for
some reason various sources of documentation seem to disagree on what options
are available to use. To solve this problem, I wrote my own, simpler format
that includes only themeing-related options that a sane person would actually
want to use. I also documented each option clearly below.

Frankly, if you're comfortable editing your regular .Xresources file and don't
plan on changing it often, you probably shouldn't bother with this. I made it
for myself, to fix a problem I have personally,  and figured I'd share it.



Writing a Theme:

A theme/config file consists of lines containing a property, along with any
other information that particular property requires. See `example.xth` for an
example configuration.

There are three types of options that can be set:

 - Flags
   These options are simply listed on a line, and they enable or disable a
   certain feature. No value is given for this sort of option.

 - Values
   These options have a specific value that should come after them on the
   same line, separated by a space.

 - Lists
   These options are given on a line on their own, followed by a certain number
   of lines, each containing a single value for the list.

Please note:

 - Colors must be in hex (#xxxxxx) or basic name (red, green, blue, etc.) format.

 - Any lines that aren't valid config options will be silently ignored, so you
   don't need any particular formatting to make a comment.

 - Indentation of a line will probably result in xtheme failing to recognize the option.

Options:

 - color fg (Value)
   Sets the foreground color to the one specified.

 - color bg (Value)
   Sets the background color to the one specified.

 - color cursor (Value)
   Sets the cursor color to the one specified.

 - color bold (Value)
   Sets the bold color to the one specified. This will also tell XTerm to use
   colored text for "bold" instead of actual bold text.

 - color italic (Value)
   Sets the italic color to the one specified. This will also tell XTerm to use
   colored text for "italic" instead of actual italic text.

 - color underline (Value)
   Sets the underline color to the one specified. This will also tell XTerm to
   use colored text for "underline" instead of actual underlined text.

 - colors (List)
   Sets all 16 terminal colors (color0 to color15). These colors must be
   specified in proper order on the following lines. 16 lines of color values
   must follow.

 - colors multi (List)
   Sets all 16 terminal colors (color0 to color15), except the first 8 are
   identical to the last 8 (color0 is the same as color8, color1 is the same
   as color9, etc.) Thus, only 8 lines of color values must follow.

 - font face (Value)
   Sets the font to the one whose name is specified.

 - font size (Value)
   Sets the font's size, in points, to the value specified.

 - padding (Value)
   Sets the padding around the outer edges of the terminal, in pixels, to the
   value specified

 - use scrollbar (Value)
   Set to true to enable the scrollbar, or false to disable. This isn't a
   flag because the default can be a bit more inconsistent, so we need the
   ability to turn it off or on.

 - cursor blink (Flag)
   Makes the cursor blink.

 - use clipboard (Flag)
   Enables using Ctrl+Shift+V and Ctrl+Shift+C to copy and paste.



Copyright / Licensing:

Source Code, associated/accompanying project files, documentation, and binaries
resulting from the compilation of source code are Copyright 2018 Ethan McTague.

Source code, associated/accompanying project files, documentation, and binaries
resulting from the compilation of source code licensed under the BSD 2-Clause
License, see accompanying "COPYING" file for license terms.

